Add percentile_bucket pipeline aggregation (#9671)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/pipeline/percentiles-bucket.md

---
layout: default
title: Percentiles bucket
parent: Pipeline aggregations
nav_order: 160

> redirect_from:

Reviewer: You don't need a redirect unless there was a file already with this topic in a different location. In this case, since this is new, no redirect needed.

Author: Makes sense. Going to have to remove a few of these then, I reckon. 😁

>   - /query-dsl/aggregations/pipeline/percentiles-bucket/

Author: ```suggestion
```

---

# Percentiles bucket aggregations

The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation is a sibling aggregation that calculates the percentile placement of bucketed metrics.

> The `percentiles_bucket` does not interpolate to calculate percentiles. Each percentile value is the closest value that is less than or equal to that percentile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation does not interpolate to calculate percentiles. Each percentile value is the closest value that is less than or equal to that percentile.
```

Reviewer: This sentence and the next one are related. Maybe combine them into one? 

The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation computes percentiles exactly, without approximation or interpolation. Each percentile is returned as the closest value less than or equal to the target percentile.

Author: ```suggestion
The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation computes percentiles exactly, without approximation or interpolation. Each percentile is returned as the closest value less than or equal to the target percentile.
```

> The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation computes percentiles exactly, without approximating. This requires the entire list of values be kept temporarily in memory, even for large data sets. In contrast, [the `percentiles` metric aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/percentile) uses less memory, but approximates the percentages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation computes percentiles exactly, without approximating. This requires the entire list of values to be kept temporarily in memory, even for large data sets. In contrast, [the `percentiles` metric aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/percentile) uses less memory, but approximates the percentages.
```

> The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation computes percentiles exactly, without approximating. This requires the entire list of values be kept temporarily in memory, even for large data sets. In contrast, [the `percentiles` metric aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/percentile) uses less memory, but approximates the percentages.

Author: ```suggestion
The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation requires the entire list of values be kept temporarily in memory, even for large data sets. In contrast, [the `percentiles` metric aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/percentile) uses less memory, but approximates the percentages.
```

The specified metric must be numeric and the sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation.

## Parameters

The `avg_bucket` aggregation takes the following parameters.

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |

> | `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to be aggregated. See [Pipeline aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#pipeline-aggregation-syntax). |

Author: ```suggestion
| `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to be aggregated. See [Pipeline aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#buckets-path-property). |
```

> | `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to be aggregated. See [Pipeline aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#pipeline-aggregation-syntax). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the buckets to aggregate. See [Pipeline aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#pipeline-aggregation-syntax). |
```

| `gap_policy`          | Optional          | String          | The policy to apply to missing data. Valid values are `skip`, `insert_zeros`, and `keep_values`. Default is `skip`. |
| `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |

> | `percents`            | Optional          | List            | A list containing any number of numeric percentage values to be included in the output. Valid values are between 0.0 and 100.0 inclusive. Default is `[1.0, 5.0, 25.0, 50.0, 75.0, 95.0, 99.0]`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `percents`            | Optional          | List            | A list containing any number of numeric percentage values to be included in the output. Valid values are between 0.0 and 100.0, inclusive. Default is `[1.0, 5.0, 25.0, 50.0, 75.0, 95.0, 99.0]`. |
```

> | `keyed`               | Optional          | Boolean         | A flag that formats the output as a dictionary rather than an array of key-value pair objects. Default is `true`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `keyed`               | Optional          | Boolean         | Whether to format the output as a dictionary rather than an array of key-value pair objects. Default is `true` (format the output as key-value pairs). |
```

          }
        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-03-31T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1743379200000,
          "doc_count": 1048,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 79448.60546875
          }
        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-04-07T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1743984000000,
          "doc_count": 1048,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 78208.4296875
          }
        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-04-14T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1744588800000,
          "doc_count": 1073,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 81277.296875
          }
        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-04-21T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1745193600000,
          "doc_count": 924,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 70494.2578125
          }
        }
      ]
    },
    "percentiles_monthly_sales": {
      "values": {
        "1.0": 41455.5390625,
        "5.0": 41455.5390625,
        "25.0": 70494.2578125,
        "50.0": 78208.4296875,
        "75.0": 79448.60546875,
        "95.0": 81277.296875,
        "99.0": 81277.296875
      }
    }
  }
}
```
</details>

> ## Example: options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Options
```

> The following example computes percentiles on the same data as the previous example, but with the following differences:

Reviewer: An intro sentence to a code block must end in a colon. This sentence is an intro to the list and to the code block, so we either have to change the list to a paragraph and end the last sentence in a colon, or add another short intro sentence for the code block.

Author: ```suggestion
The next example computes percentiles on the same data as the previous example, but with the following differences.
```

- The `percents` parameter specifies that only the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles be calculated 
- String-formatted outputs are appended using the `format` parameter

> - Results are displayed as key-value pair objects (with string values appended) by setting the `keyed` parameter to `false'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Results are displayed as key-value pair objects (with string values appended) by setting the `keyed` parameter to `false`
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The example is as follows:

```

```json
POST /opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_ecommerce/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "weekly_sales": {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "order_date",
        "calendar_interval": "week"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "total_price": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "taxful_total_price"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "percentiles_monthly_sales": {
      "percentiles_bucket": {
        "buckets_path": "weekly_sales>total_price",
        "percents": [25.0, 50.0, 75.0],
        "format": "$#,###.00",
        "keyed": false
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## Example results: options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example response: Options
```

---
layout: default
title: Percentiles bucket
parent: Pipeline aggregations
nav_order: 160
redirect_from:
---

# Percentiles bucket aggregations

The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation is a sibling aggregation that calculates the percentile placement of bucketed metrics.

The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation computes percentiles exactly, without approximation or interpolation. Each percentile is returned as the closest value less than or equal to the target percentile.

> The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation requires that the entire list of values be kept temporarily in memory, even for large data sets. In contrast, [the `percentiles` metric aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/percentile) uses less memory, but approximates the percentages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `percentiles_bucket` aggregation requires that the entire list of values be kept temporarily in memory, even for large datasets. In contrast, [the `percentiles` metric aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/metric/percentile/) uses less memory but approximates the percentages.
```

> The specified metric must be numeric and the sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The specified metric must be numeric, and the sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation.
```

## Parameters

The `avg_bucket` aggregation takes the following parameters.

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |
| `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to aggregate. See [Pipeline aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#buckets-path-property). |
| `gap_policy`          | Optional          | String          | The policy to apply to missing data. Valid values are `skip`, `insert_zeros`, and `keep_values`. Default is `skip`. |
| `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |
| `percents`            | Optional          | List            | A list containing any number of numeric percentage values to be included in the output. Valid values are between 0.0 and 100.0, inclusive. Default is `[1.0, 5.0, 25.0, 50.0, 75.0, 95.0, 99.0]`. |

> | `keyed`               | Optional          | Boolean         | Whether to format the output as a dictionary rather than an array of key-value pair objects. Default is `true` (format the output as key-value pairs). |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `keyed`               | Optional          | Boolean         | Whether to format the output as a dictionary rather than as an array of key-value pair objects. Default is `true` (format the output as key-value pairs). |
```

        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-03-31T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1743379200000,
          "doc_count": 1048,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 79448.60546875
          }
        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-04-07T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1743984000000,
          "doc_count": 1048,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 78208.4296875
          }
        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-04-14T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1744588800000,
          "doc_count": 1073,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 81277.296875
          }
        },
        {
          "key_as_string": "2025-04-21T00:00:00.000Z",
          "key": 1745193600000,
          "doc_count": 924,
          "total_price": {
            "value": 70494.2578125
          }
        }
      ]
    },
    "percentiles_monthly_sales": {
      "values": {
        "1.0": 41455.5390625,
        "5.0": 41455.5390625,
        "25.0": 70494.2578125,
        "50.0": 78208.4296875,
        "75.0": 79448.60546875,
        "95.0": 81277.296875,
        "99.0": 81277.296875
      }
    }
  }
}
```
</details>

## Example: Options

> The next example computes percentiles on the same data as the previous example, but with the following differences:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next example computes percentiles using the same data as in the previous example but with the following differences:
```

> - The `percents` parameter specifies that only the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles be calculated 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `percents` parameter specifies that only the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles be calculated.
```

> - String-formatted outputs are appended using the `format` parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- String-formatted outputs are appended using the `format` parameter.
```

> - Results are displayed as key-value pair objects (with string values appended) by setting the `keyed` parameter to `false`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Results are displayed as key-value pair objects (with string values appended) by setting the `keyed` parameter to `false`.
```
